Power BI Sales Dashboard Project Documentation
Project Objective
The objective of the Sales Dashboard project is to provide comprehensive insights into sales, profit, orders, profit margin, and various comparisons using Power BI. This dashboard aims to help users understand key performance indicators and trends. The specific objectives of the report are as follows:

Calculate Total Sales: Display the total sales value for the selected period to understand overall revenue.
Calculate Profit: Visualize the total profit based on sales data to assess financial performance.
Analyze Orders: Examine the number of orders placed during the selected period to identify sales patterns and trends.
Calculate Profit Margin: Visualize the profit margin percentage to assess product or service profitability.
Compare Sales by Product with Previous Year: Compare product-wise sales performance between the selected period and the previous year.
Compare Sales by Months with Previous Year: Compare monthly sales performance between the selected period and the previous year.
Display Top 5 Cities: Present the top 5 cities based on sales to quickly identify lucrative locations.
Compare Profit by Channel with Previous Year: Compare profit generated by each channel between the selected period and the previous year.
Analyze Sales by Customer and Compare with Previous Year: Analyze sales data by customer, highlighting individual customer performance and year-over-year comparisons.
Create Slicers for Date, City, Product, and Channel: Enable dynamic data filtering and personalized analysis by providing slicers for selecting specific dates, cities, products, and channels.
Project Steps
1. Gather Data
Collect relevant data from various sources, ensuring its accuracy and relevance to the project objectives.

2. Power Query - Data Extract, Transform & Load (ETL)
Utilize Power Query Editor in Power BI to clean and transform the data for analysis. Tasks may include handling duplicates, managing missing values, merging datasets, and creating calculated columns.

3. Create a Date Table
Create a date table in the Power BI model to support time intelligence functions in Data Analysis Expressions (DAX).

4. Create Data Model in Power BI Desktop
Design and establish relationships between tables in the data model. Define keys and hierarchies as needed for accurate analysis.

5. Develop Reports in Power BI Desktop
Use Power BI Desktop to create reports based on the data model. Include various visualizations like charts, tables, and maps to effectively represent the data. Implement interactive features like filters, slicers, and drill-through for user interaction.

6. Implement DAX Calculations
Leverage Data Analysis Expressions (DAX) to create calculated columns, measures, and calculated tables for complex calculations and aggregations. DAX is essential for data manipulation within Power BI.

7. Conclusion
Provide insights and conclusions based on the analysis conducted in the dashboard. Highlight key findings and trends, such as sales performance, product trends, customer performance, and profit margins.

DAX Measures
Here are some DAX measures used in the project:

Sales: SUM(Sales_Data[Sales])
Sales PY (Previous Year): CALCULATE([Sales], SAMEPERIODLASTYEAR(DateTable[Date]))
Sales vs PY (Year-on-Year Sales Change): [Sales] - [Sales PY]
Sales vs PY % (Year-on-Year Sales Change Percentage): DIVIDE([Sales vs PY],[Sales],0)
Products Sold: SUM(Sales_Data[Order Quantity])
Profit: SUM(Sales_Data[Profit])
Profit LY (Previous Year): CALCULATE([Profit], SAMEPERIODLASTYEAR(DateTable[Date]))
Profit Vs LY (Year-on-Year Profit Change): [Profit] - [Profit LY]
Profit vs LY % (Year-on-Year Profit Change Percentage): [Profit Vs LY]/[Profit]
Profit Margin: DIVIDE([Profit],[Sales],0)
Total Cost: SUM(Sales_Data[Total Cost])